Thank you very much everyone again for the type of participation as I said quite a few
times and thank you very much for again gathering together, again discussing the teachings of
our gracious kindness, compassion teacher of the Buddha Shakyamunus. His teachings are
love, loving kindness, compassion, non-volence, respect and appreciation for all the living
beings. That is equal. That is his message, his teachings. And we are all following this
teaching according our capabilities with joyful effort, courage and commitment and confidence
drawn to the earth and moving, toward, leaning toward. According to Buddha's teaching in
Buddhism, what we are doing together is one of the very beautiful things, beautiful, really
can do in our lives, the precious lives. We have so many things to do in the world, so
many, so many schedules, so many activities lined up one up and there is endless. But
among all that, to activate that love, joy, appreciation, respect with compassion for
all living beings is truly according Buddhism, is a reward. A reward to ourself, reward to
the others. That is what in the teaching said, you are making the meaning of our lives. We
are making the meaning of our lives. It is not just this what we are doing, loving, according
to teaching, we are not just going to leave behind with our old material, existing wealth.
When we leave this world, we go with this, according to teaching that will assure our
old, unknown destinations. It really will make sure your passage, our passage, not just
yours, our passage will be bright, confidence, calm, peaceful, as we are practicing what
these teachings. This teaching of the Buddha is nothing any special or extraordinary or
something different. It's our basic nature, love, kindness, compassion, respect and appreciation.
That is goodness of ourself. What gracious teacher Buddha highlighted, he put so many
beautiful ways to activate it that we can go in that treasure, our treasure on the box.
Why we need that? Because due to our habit patterns, due to our must-understandings, we
are always looking at the solutions outside, outside, outside, outside and less. According
to Buddha teaching, we've been doing this from the bigger, less times, beginning less
times. We've been doing that continuously. We will do that continuously, looking at solutions
outside. But what we got? Still a dilemma, still felt force, I'm not sure, doubt and
hesitation, the scepticals, scepticals and uncomfortable, un-feastful. Really, always
we've been, it's not just pure us, we've all been in that situation. But when we're
touching to our own goal of true nature, true nature as Buddha taught, we do that, really.
It is very rewarding, it brings confidence, courage and commitment. Yet, at the same time
we become more sensible, more thoughtful to ourselves and as well as our friends and family
members and respect. That's what we want. We like to be harmony, peace, joy, kind, nice.
That's what we want. This is what we're practising. What we're discussing, it really will bring.
You can witness why ourself, we can witness ourself. So those are, we kind of like highlight
thought with that and then again in the teaching always reactivate our motivations, such as
joy and appreciation. And then both each other, thought for all living beings, that we all
know. We heard, intellectually we all know. But how much really we absorbed those teachings
to our heart, we can test ourself. We can witness to our own self how much I observed
the body get us to my heart and mind. We can test, test. And together with that, then in
Vedayana teaching always bring the purity realizations or open the door to the purities. According
Vedayana teaching, everything is divine mandalas or mandala of enlightenment. Everything, both
subject and object. But we don't realize that. We don't know that. Now, why? Because we are
so narrowed mind, our duality is just a habit, a pattern is ticked and we become so regimented.
Our nature of the mind is open. There's no boundaries. There's no restrictions. Now,
our mind, I'm talking, your mind and my mind has no boundaries, no restrictions. But yet,
we make boundaries. We make restrictions. Ourself is nobody made a restriction and loaded to
us. We did it. Then it narrowed our understanding and thinned our understanding. T-H-I-N, I
believe, thinned. It just becomes so small. We are looking our knowledge of what we have now. It's
looking through the hole of the sasmi seed, looking through. That's knowledge what we have.
Reality is open to everyone. No one is occupied. There is no registered and copyrights at all.
It's open widely. Then we don't see. We're looking through that hole of the sasmi seed and what we
see. Always the same thing. Drought and hesitation and reflection of the ego clings and self-
important,
self-centered mind. That's what we did. That's what we see. That's what we experience. That's
what we are. For that reason, the religious teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni said, "Bring up the purity."
The
entire thing, everything is in purity status. It's not just something we are making of the purity.
It is ordinary nature. That's really in the teaching seat. Bring those. At least now we bring up
those
thought. It's our practices. That's what we will bring us to the perfection states. Practice makes
perfect. So with this, again, we follow with our again great teacher, the embodiment of all the
Buddhas were three times of His Holiness, the jhana bhuchas. His teaching, which is essence
teachings of the practices of the Buddhas teaching, entire Buddha teaching. That means what?
From age, Buddha gave the age, age 35. Age 35, he started giving the teaching until age 81. This
simple page is essence of all those teachings. Really, it's all teaching. So simple, so directed,
so pointing out. And that's what we really follow me. We went slowly by slowly, kind of like,
went according our time and yet we explored. A lot of things according our capabilities.
The old is a line of the teachings, teaching of the great teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni,
and as well as in Gurba and Sambhava, lineage masters. We really went those. According our
capabilities, went one after another. And today, again, we are going on this. So what we are now,
and here, I like the teaching, there is poor wealth of the practitioners. Poor wealth. We
discussed that. We went through those, each of those. Those started page, I mean, many of you
already participated. We went through this page, this page one, the last line of the page one. So
those are what? What for wealth? Devote you to the root teacher, and the love and affection to all
the
various brothers and sisters, all the old beings, and then compassion of the body for all living
beings and understanding of the impermanent. Those are known as the treasures of the practitioners.
Why is the treasure? Because if we have this treasure, our practice with dharma will be so
rich. When, for example, many practitioners are, their practices are fading away. Almost they're
going to retire their practices. But if we have this poor wealth, dharma practices will be always
fresh, always rich, always with abundances of all good results. And what abundance? Confidence,
abundance of confidence, abundance of the joy, abundance of the appreciations, abundance of the
devotions, abundance of love and compassion, compassion, and abundance of the energetic to
practices, not fading ways, not just going down or expiring or retiring. It's everlasting, really
ours. Therefore is called wealth. This wealth we need all the time. From the day one we practices,
all the way to under enrich enlightenment. And during the meditation or practicing time,
and as well as during the post meditations, we keep this wealth as much as we become more
and more rich of our abundance or the spiritual call it or dharma or realizations, really will
become. And among that, what we discussed last time about the impermanent. Impermanent is something
,
subject looks like so casual, so ordinary, so basic. But reality, according Buddhism, the imper
manent
is the big subject, big teaching, not just the subject. It's touching to the core of the nature,
core of the realities. Many teaching master said, said this is also this impermanent is one of the
extra only teaching of our greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni. The net does not spark clearly
by any other great teachers. This is his extra only one of the teachings. When you have the
realization of this impermanent, you have no difficult to understand of what in Buddhism
is talking emptiness, emptiness realization come so easily according to teaching. When you have the
impermanent realization, those of we discussed the last time, impermanent, subtle impermanent,
and gross impermanent, we sentient beings only know or only detected gross impermanent.
Gross impermanent, that also we don't detect until it come to end. That we know, because our
knowledge is gross. As I said earlier, our knowledge is looking through the sasmi seed,
whole of the sasmi seed. Realitally, everything is in this impermanent or this nature. Impermanent
is nothing bad. It's nothing something that we losing something. It starts forming, merging,
reactivating. That's what the progress comes. If there is no permanent, impermanent, there's no
progresses. There's no change. Change is all that. That changing and moving is sub-continuous
happening.
That is what is known as in the Buddha's teaching, interdependent coordination or interdependent,
ever use simple word, interdependent. Why they call that? Because it's one single entity not
it driven away anything. One entity, one material, one material, or one particle has nothing can do
.
It's all cooperated. Even one particle has so many particles, according. It's all cooperated. Yet,
they're all changing, changing, cooperating so perfectly. That's what things are developing.
So therefore, the greatest teacher, Buddha said, interdependent. They're all interconnected,
interdependent. That's where things are happening. When you see that interdependent,
that means that there is nothing substantially solid existing. For that reason, in Buddhism,
what's called is all display, is all magics, is all dreams, this all bubbles, this all mirages,
to bring, to bring that, to ring that in our head or our mind. The teacher uses those all examples,
or reflection moon in the waters. It's not just a Buddhist dogma. This is not just a Buddha making
up that. It is. And that even now, modern physics, quantum physics is proving. I understand, I
heard,
that I'm sure you know more than that. Proving, not just intellectually proving. According to
Buddhism,
when you have the realization, but it's supposed to be booming, you see things,
exactly in the nugget eye. That's known as seeing part. Seeing, C-E-S, sorry, S-E-I-N-G, I think so
,
C. S-E-I-N-G, maybe. But you understand so what I'm talking, and that's more important. Seeing part
or beholding. You're beholding. What are you really beholding? You've seen the nature,
exactly as it is without theory, without intellectual, without the conceptions. Now you see. You
want
you to start to intellect, or intellectually analyze, or got something, idea, and that,
presumption, whatever you got, now you proved. We proved. That's called seeing part. Part. Still,
even the part, even you see, according to Buddhism, still we're going to advancing. Co-op that. So,
those are the things. So those are generally about the impermanence. The other day we discussed
already that. But now this is gross impermanence, seeing that everything is impermanent. Imper
manent,
according to Buddha's teaching, what great teacher Buddha said, "If you make offerings to my the
most
noble disciples such as Harry Potter, Mongol Potter, to make offerings all the time for so many,
for a long time, have you started thinking of the impermanent for one moment, which has more power
?"
Buddha said, "It has more power to think of the impermanent than making gifts offering to
Harry Potter and Mongol Potter," so forth. How you can see how much Buddha highlighted, how
emphasize of this importance of this. For that reason, many always in the teaching mentioned,
this impermanent is so important. What he does immediately when we had the impermanent, it was
losing our grasping, clinging, our ego clingings. Really loosen up because the ego cling is so
tight and so regimented. When you have that impermanent thought, you're close to nature.
And therefore, the strength and the identity of the ego is also going down. Self-important is going
down. And when that happens, what comes up? Love, kindness, compassion, joy and appreciation to
ourselves, one's own self to others really will grow. That is what, for those reasons, always in
the teaching said, for example, in our practice teaching, Mundo practices, there's four renour
sessions or four points that will reverse our grasping mind, mind from samsara to the dharma.
Those four points, one is impermanent, reflecting those impermanent. For that reason, famous master
known as Karagomchung. Karagomchung is very famous and put away in all those ancient time or 11th,
12th century master of the Kadam schools of the Tibetan Buddhism. Kadam schools. And Karagomchung,
and many master said Karagomchung was practicing of the Dzogchen and as well as Kadam teachings
that come from articias practicing. But in their teachings and what they said, if you have the
impermanent thought the first time, it will help us bring the fed. F-A-T-H, fed. It will make us
bring fed in our heart. If you have the impermanent knowledge, impermanent, it will help to
practicing
the dharma. Suppose it will help to bring the fed. Second, it will help to practice the dharma. If
you
continue to keep that impermanent knowledge, it will help to accomplish or fulfilment of the
practices. Practices. That's what this great master says. And also in the teachings said, if you
have
the impermanent or knowledge of impermanent, it will help to assure us to the dharma. Assure us to
the dharma and break down the clingsings to the samsaras, everything. And if you continue to keep
the impermanent, it will help to activate our joyful effort. It will bring more joyful effort. Joy
ful
effort to the virtues, to the dharma. If you continue to keep this impermanent, it will help to
bring
the wisdom in our realisation. So the impermanent is so important every way for that reason. I mean
,
because it is touching the knowledge of the impermanent, touching to the goal of a way
this relates to the art, relates to the ease. So those are, for that reason, this is known as all,
those all together, is wealth of the practitioners. Wealth. So up to that is what we discussed.
Now we do, so therefore what he said here, here, are known as the poor, ever-lasting wealth of the
practitioners and should be regarded as indispensables. Indispensables. Indispensables. What that
means,
as I said already early in this book, keep this poor wealth, every occasion,
during the practice occasions and during the post-practice occasions. And we keep this,
we will be so practical. We will become very practical and will become more, it will bring us
more sensible understand, or more senses, and we, more common senses, and it will bring really very
,
very kind of practical, it will bring us, it will make us very practical. Sensible practicals,
something harmony, peaceful in this life, but same time it will provide us a big support
to our destination in the future. So those are the, the teaching we go. Now we go to the next one.
This next one, from this, this from here, the middle of this, "Lama and the Yedams are inseparably
one's own mind. From that on is all that to end is now teachings, essence teachings of the
inner Tantras." Inner Tantras. What are those inner Tantras? Of course you all know. I will list
the
names. That is Mahayoga Tantra, Anu-Yoga Tantra, Inner Tantra. So this is the essence of the
practices of all inner Tantras. So that means what we've been discussing until now is the
foundation of the practices, foundation of practice of the inner Tantras. Once we have this,
then we, as we, we receive the teaching, and then we begin to practice of these following links.
The force among that is here, what? Said the Lama. The Lama and the Yedams,
"Yedams are inseparable from one's own mind." That's, according to the Vijayana teaching,
there's always have the synonyms of the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha. Different name. That means a
different name that you all, you know. Those are known as the Guru, Diti, Dakinis, or in it very
old, Lama, a Yedam, and a Khandros. Those are. What in the teaching said, all the great masters
always said, "Lama is root of blessings, and a Yedam is root of accomplishment, and a Dakini
is root of all the fulfillments or the activities." Root, again, I'm sure you know that,
my non-section, that, but R-O-O-T, I believe, root. Also, I can change the root, maybe some others,
terminologies. Root, instead, root, source. Source. So, Lama is source of blessings.
Yedams are source of accomplishment, and Dakinis are source of activity of fulfillment. So,
those are ways. So, those are the four, sorry, three. And they are, according, again, in the
teaching said, synonyms of the Buddha, Dharma, Sanghams. So, how that happens? According to the
teaching said, Lama represented, for example, Lama represented the Buddha, if we say one, one,
one, three different. And the Yedam represented Dharma, and Dakini represented the Sangha members.
So, those are three kind of groups. Lama represented, Lama is a Tibetan word,
which is Sanskrit, Guru. Guru represented Buddha, and Diti represented Dharma, and Dakini or Khand
roma
represented Sangha members, that is. And then in the teaching said, even the Lama,
Lama alone is represented all those three, what also all three? Lama, Diti, and Dakini,
they are all presented by the Lama. And how that is? According to the teaching said,
Lama, they say, the realization of Lama, and realization of Lama, representing the,
presenting the Yedams, and in activities of the Lama is representing the Dakinis.
And the Lama, that him or herself represented the Sangha members. Or maybe I didn't do it the
correct
way yet. If I say more again, one, one, one more time, one time, one more time. And Lama
representing as, again, Lama represented Lama. Lama, all Lama represented, the external Lama
represented Sangha members. And the teaching of Lama, represented Sangha. And as well as
realization of the Lama, represented Buddhas. So that way, Buddha, Dharma, Sanghas. I think
Buddha, Dharma, Sangha, and Guru, Deva, Dakinis. Dakinis in that way is that. And then what it is,
again, Lama, we're talking now, Lama. And Lama is a teacher. Other day, we discussed about the
qualified of the Lamas. Generally, we also went, there's four groups of the teachers. Lama means,
if I translate it now, teacher, teacher. So there's four groups of the teachers, according
to the Buddha teaching. There's many. But fourth one is teacher, the Dharma, sorry, Sambukhaya,
Kayas. Group Sambukhayas are known as also teachers. Second group is the Nama Kaya Buddhas
are known as also teachers. Third is the great Bodhisattvas.
Groups are known as teachers. The fourth group is then, other day, I may be mentioned ordinary
teachers. But if I translate it more kind of a simple way, the groups of the human teachers.
So human teacher. So that means how many groups, how many teachers? Human teacher,
Bodhisattva teachers, Nama Kaya teachers, and Sambukhaya teachers. Among those four teachers,
what we have the capabilities to connect with, most time is human teachers.
Bodhisattva teachers also difficult to us to find, find really, truly. And Nama Kaya Buddhas
even more difficult to find. And Sambukhaya teachers even more difficult, according to
the Buddha's teaching, those who have the capability to receive the teaching from Sambukhaya,
Sambukhaya Buddha, they have to be in the highest stage of the path. At the path, ninth path,
and tenth bhoomi path. At the bhoomi, ninth bhoomi, tenth bhoomis. Those they can receive. For us,
is that the human teachers. That's what we can connect with most of us.
Maybe some have the capability to connect with those higher ones. But mostly, it's human teachers.
For that reason, in the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni gave those old qualifications.
Even as a hoomi teacher, it needs qualifications. We went through those last time.
Qualifications of the accorded Buddha's teaching, Vinaya teaching, Mahayana teaching,
Vajrayana teaching, we went three groups, even though there's so many explanations and all that
qualification of the teachers, we went through those, one after another. Most all those we also
summarized, while as a great master, Jungkook Unruh said in the teachings, those are all
qualifications are what he said. Those five or four or five, I've listed this, I said early.
The fourth one is one who has the vows and the samayas, one who is keeping
vows and the samayas and have the moralities. So that means conduct. Some always say,
have good conduct. That is one. Second, that teacher has lineage teachings, unbroken lineage
teaching from the Buddha Samad Bhadra or from the Buddha Shakyamuni, to Guru Moochai, to all the
Vinayas who had lineage teachings, lineage teachings, teachings on that. So that is second.
Third is that lineage teaching is not diluted, not spoiled, not scared or stained, pure lineage.
Third, fourth one is who has knowledge of all the teachings and also knowledge of the practices,
practice not just only knows, but practitioners, keeping the teaching with the practices,
both scriptural and realization levels. And that is in a debate called Long Togwa,
Long Chu Togwa, keeping up practices. And the last one has great compassion.
Bodhijata, that means have the compassion, concern, caring,
thoughts for all the beings with the great compassion. Those are the great master,
Jungkung Kuntra, who has summarized that, he's highlighted that. So that is the qualification.
If you see that qualified teacher, then or great master, what Shanti Deva said,
even true, he said, I said those things before. And again, I will say true. The teacher,
the qualified teacher, we should stay with the vows. Vows of the bodhisattva vows,
keeping the bodhisattva vows across their lives. That vow, that means courage, commitment,
determination, and keeping up the vows. What vow actually, bodhijata vow? It means vows of
the bodhijata is wishing bodhijata, actualizing bodhijata vows, keeping up that. So that is the
ground one. And then second, the one who knows the mayana teachings, all the teachings, if I say,
all the teachings, that true, call it, at the call it, or true, that true, at the call it of the
human teachers. That's what really great master Shanti Deva said. So those are all. But when you
see that teacher, teacher then, and what about here, here, here, here, here, see that this lama and
yidam are inseparable from one's own mind. So that qualified teacher is so special and so important
,
but yet, we according to Vajrayana teaching of the zokti level, then qualified teacher is no other
than
one's own mind. Nature of the mind is representing of their qualified teachers. That means to have
that realization, we maintain also same time vows or this bodhijata vows or the vows of the
teachings
according what you receive. At the same time, your devotion, your courage, and the commitment to
the
practice of dharma, and then, when you succumb to the meditation, the practice, and then teacher
is no other than them, and one's own nature of the mind. And teacher, the nature of the mind is not
just only the teacher, essence of teacher, but here, said His Holiness, also is nature of one's
own mind is essence of the yidam deities. That also indicated nature of the mind is also essence of
the
dakinis. So this, our own mind, nature of the mind is embodiment of the guru, deity, and dakinis.
That is what it is. And how that is? According to the teaching, again, the realizations of the guru
,
the realization where the realization actually happening is in the mind. The mind,
that nature of the realization is dharma. This is as well as is the Buddha's.
So therefore, what in the teaching said, again, nature of the mind, emptiness aspect of nature
of the mind is dharmakaya, Buddha's, dharmakaya or lama dharmakayas. Clarity aspect of the nature
is lama sambhukaya, lamas. This aspect of the nature of the mind is narmakaya, lama or the dakini
of the lamas on dakinis. So that means emptiness, clarity, and the display of our mind is
Buddha, dharma, sangha, and guru, deva, dakinis, and dharmakaya, sambhukaya, and narmakaya,
all those things within this nature of the mind. So that is, how are we going to see that?
According to the teaching said, for example, now you begin to practice when you practice,
and first you do follow exactly instructions what you received, and do all those your
lineage prayers, and then you do also Kundal practices. As this is so important,
Kundal practice. So practice that. And that is, we visualize at that time, externally
guru, and guru who is embodiment of the, such as embodiment of all the gurus,
is gurup and masambhava. That we meditate above or in front of you, above your head,
or above our head, and in front of our head. We visualize. Gurup and masambhava, and we also,
and then in, above the head, Gurup and masambhava, or on the top, on the, in the sky,
and then we can meditate all the lineage masters of the masters, lineage masters.
Those in the Inma schools of the Buddhism, are three lineages. Mind to mind, or lamas of the mind
to mind transmission lineages. And lamas of the sambole transmission lineages. Lamas of the
other transmission lineages. Then in the, those are the general lineages. And pacifically,
in Inma, hidden treasure line, lineage. There is three addition lineages. That means, then
it makes six lineages. And those are first, first it is known as, is lineage of the, of the
appointment and the predictions. Lineage of the appointment and the predictions. Those I'm
translating. Kava, lungthi, japa, in Tibet. Kava, lungthi, japa. Mona, wangkar, japa. And khandro,
tej, japa. Those are in Tibet, and I'm translating this kava, lungthi, japa. Appointment and
prediction lineages. And the second lineage is, and empowerment and aspiration lineages.
And third is, dakini, dakini-handed lineages. That's what I've translated. I'm translating that.
So that's what it means, this. This Thema teachings, generally all those great thetums came,
one after another, throughout the centuries, from maybe beginning of the, beginning of the
10th century, or not 10th, me, I don't, 10th century, until now. They all are blessed by the
GURUP and my sambhava, sambhava, and the Western dakini-shim soldiers. Either ancient time,
in the 8th century, or now, when they revealed, I guess before that, can be, can be.
And that means, that means now, therefore, then when those individuals, those great thetums,
those who revealed are known as thetums, they are designated, appointed by the GURUP and my sambh
ava,
and the Western dakini-shim soldier, and they're going to reveal the teachings.
They're teaching us other treasures to benefit others. And the same time, they give predictions,
means instructions, how you're going to do, what the time you do, and all those. Those are known as
kabap lungti jupa, I translated appointment and empowerment something, or
prophetic lineages. And the third one is, once that happened, and then third one is,
when GURUP and my sambhava, Western dakini-shim soldier, and as well as their those great thetums,
themselves, all put together intentions, their aspirations, together, they're going to reveal.
And GURUP and my sambhava shim soldier, they are, say this, may this happen. They do the pray,
kind of like sealing up more comfort, reaffirming with the power of the mind, to that individual,
same time to that individual, those thetums, also reconnecting their devotions and their connection
to GURUP and my sambhava shim soldiers. So that's, that is then received empowerment, whatever they
're
going to reveal, reveal the teachings, receive empowerment in the teachings. So third one, once
that happened, and then dakini-handed lineages, and then lineage, those teachings are then handed
by
by ishim soldier, sambhava shim soldier, to those thetums, and handed or indicated, they will do,
they will support to reward those. So those are three extra lineages, all those lineage masters,
ah, ah, right above the GURUP and my sambhava. And the right side of the GURUP and my sambhava,
then is in the teaching said, and the Buddha shaktya manimis, and all the buddhas of the
one thousand buddhas and buddhas of the three times, all are there. And the left side of the
GURUP and my sambhava is, such as the GURUP and bodhisattvas, and all the ahatas and everything,
all that. In front of that, then, the GURUP and my sambhava, in front of that, GURUP and my sambh
ava
is then all the deities, such as the Vedic liars, surrounded by with hai and giva, yamintaka, and
adhirukas, and as well as dharmas, or as well as all the dharma palas, so that. I mean this all the
field, and the right side of the GURUP and my sambhava, all the books and teachings that in
the form of the rainbow lights. And then there was all, all I mean, every deities and all those bud
dhas
and gurudev and dakini, all massive, right in front of you, and then do the prayer practices,
meditate. All of you can feel, it's too much that, and then we, we mean all that we can be
summarized
in one single state as GURUP and my sambhava. GURUP and my sambhava embody everything. All the
buddhas, dharmas, dharmas, dharmas, gurudev, and dakini, those are known as, what, in a way they
said,
kundi nauru love, which means the wish, the system of the wish-fulfilling jewel that granted all
the
wishes. So GURUP and my sambhava is like that, in terms of the words, and then you
then do the giant thing, prayers and receiving blessings as you receive instructions,
the disease. And finally, then GURUP and my sambhava, all the linear master dissolve
at the end after receiving blessings and emerge to your own mind and the nature of the mind.
And then our own mind is embodiment of all those, what we discuss already, daily,
nature of the mind, everything. Then relax, meditate, meditate in the dhakti status,
or meditate whatever you meditate. So meditation is nothing but relaxing your mind in the natural
status, not in the past, not in the future. Write on the Persian status. That is what meditation,
be in the present, persons is natural status. Past and the futures are in conceptions.
Present is fresh, naked state, according to teaching, relaxing that status.
Then if you like to do more practices, if you have time, then follow this. This is what he said.
Now, here is it. This is all from this. In the development stages, meditation,
all appearance can be empty in the moon and reflections. And then all the repetition and
otherness as sound emptiness of the mantras. And so now is the Vedayana teachings, now continually.
And Vedayana teaching can be divided, not can be, is divided into true group practices.
Those are, you all know, visualization and dissolving stages. Those are different,
kind of more simple names. All in the teaching said creation stages and completion stages.
So if I use both those terminologies, the creation stage of the visualization,
completion stage of the dissolving, these are the two stage practices.
And the Vedayana teaching, all the teachings of Vedayana are encompassed in these two stages.
After you did the guru yoga or meditation on the guru practices, now you begin to engage him.
Engaging of the more, kind of more strongly practices in the Vedayana practices.
So this Vedayana practicing is known as true. I mean, you all know,
is I'm not talking something new. But this practice of the two practices,
also another way if I say, there is three practices, three practices.
That is known as three Vedara. Vedara form practices, Vedara sound practices,
Vedara mind practices. These three Vedara is actually the entirely universe, as I said
earlier, and you know already, you of course, you received so many teachings from many great
master's. So you know, it's already in this status. This is originally already that status.
To activate that, now we're doing these three Vedas, these three practices.
That three Vedas is already pure in this state as we discussed earlier. Everything is pure.
Everything is in light status. But we don't see that now. Now, why we don't see
due to the habit patterns or due to the cataracts of our habit patterns we don't see.
In order to see that, to break through their cataracts,
then a great teacher, Bodhacharya Muni gave this skill of means of teachings.
Skill of means of teaching which is known as visualization or creative stages.
Incidentally, we are visualizing everything in lightness status.
That instantly, what we are visualizing, even though this moment looks like we are imagining,
we're making up things. But according to Buddha teaching, even though it looks like making up,
but it is lined up with the true nature, truth as it is.
Truth is pure. Truth is enlightened. We don't see that as if we just spoke so many times.
But this time, forcefully, we are activating that pureed status, pureed status,
three visual states. How that started? From our mind.
From our mind. When we see actually things, when we tell that, "Oh, I see.
I heard. I know." Who is saying that? Nothing else besides the mind.
Mind is making everything. It's true. Mind is, according to Buddhism,
already in Buddhism, or the majority of Buddhism, it is, mind is a cradle of every hour environment
.
And now, we are activating where things are, by the teaching of the Buddha, where things are.
So we visualize. What we visualize? Subject is pure, object is pure, and orbit when that is all
pure.
What means pure? I maybe use word, maybe should use word, enlightened. Subject is enlightened,
object is enlightened, and the beat of whatever it is, is all enlightened.
That in light is never changed. And never changed will not change, will not going to change.
To order to refer that, that knowledge in the Buddha's teaching known as vajra.
Vajra means Sanskrit word, but what means that it will be translated into English, as you all know.
Diamond. According to the conception of the world, diamond never going to change.
Diamond will be diamond. That is what says. The nature is not going to change. Even our
conception is diluted and changing wrongly that, but now, nature never changed. The purity never
changed. So therefore, it's called vajras. Now, to bring up the realization of the vajra,
vajra of the poems, all these forms are enlightened state, for that reason is known as
visualization.
Here, said all these forms are in like development stages, meditate, all the appearance are
emptiness,
moon, and the reflections. It's all enlightened. All enlightened as enlightenment, emptiness.
Everything is enlightened as reflection in the moon and the water. That in the Buddha teaching,
for example, in the sutra teaching, Buddha give that those teachings. Form is emptiness,
emptiness form. Now, in vajra and the teaching, that same thing, but it's enlightened.
Enlightened form, it is emptiness. What is enlightened? Those in all those inner centers,
such as Gautengarbha centers, poems are the Buddha Vero Chanas. All five areas of the world,
five aggregates are the five dhyana buddhas, five aggregates, five dhyana buddhas. This is not just
making our joking, joking. According to Buddha's teaching in it, then it is all enlightened.
So now, this visualization is to bring up that way things are. That is the correction stage
of the, what this, this moment we need correction because due to our habit dependence,
we don't see what forcefully we're waking up. And that starts from our mind. Our mind is also empty
,
yet it's pure. That reflector began to see the old and natural. But many times in the teaching,
often said, Buddha nature. Now, Buddha nature is not just a Buddha nature. Buddha nature is
waking up, exaggerating things up. So that's it. And then this visualization is in the,
you all know, it started with three samadhis, three samadhis. Those are just listed in the book,
you all know. Satyana samadhi, manifestation samadhi and seed samadhis. Or samadhi is a Sanskrit
word
or the meditation. Satyana's meditation, all arising meditation and seed meditation. Through that,
developing all these visualizations. And then we see everything. Then
all this sadness we follow. Then the teachings you follow. That is what sadness. The next one is,
is the meditation on the utterance of the sound emptiness of mantras. Then second is,
not just only the forms are enlightened. The sound is enlightened. What in the world we have
actually
now, according to the Buddhism or Buddhism. Poem, sound, mind and space. That's it.
There's nothing else besides. Poem, F-O-R-M, I think. Poems, sound, mind and space.
That's it. So all this is enlightened. All three is enlightened. That is what the
enlightened state is, the Vedic energy known, three Vedic states. And they mean the unchangeable
enlightened. They're not going to change. It's enlightened. So sound is enlightened.
So that is what to see this. And to do these practices and then to start that enlightenment
sound of the enlightenment. Then in Vedic energy, give a lot of instructions on how to recite in
the mantras. Mantras. That mantra, what we recite in mantra is not just only that. That sound is
as a ripple is reflecting to the all the sounds of the world and is reflecting to the all the wind
of the world. The all blended in perfectly and become the voice sound of enlightenment.
What that sound of enlightenment may be is sound of loving kindness, compassion,
wisdoms, blended in that all in the appearing of the song. It's all enlightened. All in that status
.
That sound is also as nature is, is, is emptiness and the appearance,
emptiness. As in here, teaching says this, all sound emptiness. Everything is empty. There's
no substantial solid existing. It's transforming, changing, merging. So that is regular mind,
regular, regular sound systems. Then next one is then explaining all this. What's the mind or the
regular mind? All the way through this next one, until the end of this is all teaching. And when
you see a used word, it's all jokti teachings. All this is jokti teachings or is the teachings
of the meditation. So that today I will stop here and then next week I'm going to go over this.
Briefly, I'm going to conclude of this, this hard advised teachings, teachings. Many of you all
resist instructions of the, of the jokki or many, you all resist the teachings of the meditation.
So therefore, but it is again, we go through this and through that. So now what we discuss,
among the three various, regular body, regular speech and regular sound. Now we talk with the
next week, we talk with the regular mind or the, yeah, regular mind, mind in life and nature. We
talk this and that is the, my talk today and thank you very much again. It's been a long time today
,
sorry. We talk a little longer time, but we talk next week, this we completed. So I thought in
thinking of my mind, I like to complete this and then kind of like I went carried with all those
different kind of, blah, blah, blah, so many, but thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much for
your
patience and for your understanding. And now we do a short dedication, one minute sitting, and then
we do the short dedication that we completed the first session. And then second session, we begin
with again, healing practices. As I said, dharma pala, some of those practice. Again, thank you.
Thank you. Hopefully see you next week. Next week, I'm going to talk, what's called, on the
Saturday,
3.30, I'm going to take away our two wonderful lamas teaching on the Kundal. So I will take
kind of away that and I will try to enter in that. But otherwise, our two wonderful lama, lama,
laya and a lama truck are really giving wonderful teachings and inspiring encourage to all of us
by doing the Kundal practices. Even you complete the Kundal practices, it is so good to do again,
to touch the best. Touch the best is always good or touch to our home status, is home, sweet home.
From there, we develop and we can do so. It's so wonderful participating of the Kundal practices.
And this short Kundal is also our Kundal practice is so short. Among all the Kundals, there's so
many
versions of the Kundals, but this is a really short one. Timely teaching of the his own Dunyo
Rinpoche or his predecessor of the Dunyo. Dunyo is so special, so concise, it is so beautiful.
So thank you so much, everyone. Angatrachi Dhelas.
We have this booklet, open prayer booklet. And we do one stanza, one verse of the dedication
prayer, which is page 32 in English. By this merit, may all obtain omniscience, may it defeat the
enemy
wrong doing. From the stormy words, the birth of all the ages sickness and death. From the ocean,
the samsara, may I free all beings.